README.md, before:

```
'           __________________ _______          _________ _______ _________ _______  _        ______  
'  |\     /|\__   __/\__   __/(  ____ \|\     /|\__   __/(  ____ \\__   __/(  ____ \( \      (  __  \ 
'  | )   ( |   ) (      ) (   | (    \/( \   / )   ) (   | (    \/   ) (   | (    \/| (      | (  \  )
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   | (__     \ (_) /    | |   | (__       | |   | (__    | |      | |   ) |
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   |  __)     ) _ (     | |   |  __)      | |   |  __)   | |      | |   | |
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   | (       / ( ) \    | |   | (         | |   | (      | |      | |   ) |
'  | (___) |___) (___   | |   | (____/\( /   \ )   | |   | )      ___) (___| (____/\| (____/\| (__/  )
'  (_______)\_______/   )_(   (_______/|/     \|   )_(   |/       \_______/(_______/(_______/(______/ 
'                                                                                                     
'   _        _______          _________ _______  _______ __________________ _______  _                
'  ( (    /|(  ___  )|\     /|\__   __/(  ____ \(  ___  )\__   __/\__   __/(  ___  )( (    /|         
'  |  \  ( || (   ) || )   ( |   ) (   | (    \/| (   ) |   ) (      ) (   | (   ) ||  \  ( |         
'  |   \ | || (___) || |   | |   | |   | |      | (___) |   | |      | |   | |   | ||   \ | |         
'  | (\ \) ||  ___  |( (   ) )   | |   | | ____ |  ___  |   | |      | |   | |   | || (\ \) |         
'  | | \   || (   ) | \ \_/ /    | |   | | \_  )| (   ) |   | |      | |   | |   | || | \   |         
'  | )  \  || )   ( |  \   /  ___) (___| (___) || )   ( |   | |   ___) (___| (___) || )  \  |         
'  |/    )_)|/     \|   \_/   \_______/(_______)|/     \|   )_(   \_______/(_______)|/    )_)         
'                                                                                                     
```

# UITextField-Navigation

[![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/issues)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/metrics/doc-percent/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/UITextField-Navigation)

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square&label=release)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/releases)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

[![Carthage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat-square)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)
[![CocoaPods downloads](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/dt/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)

## Description

UITextField-Navigation adds next, previous and done buttons to the keyboard for your `UITextField`s. It allows you to specify a next text field either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. Then, you can access next and previous text fields of each `UITextField` easily.

The UI is [**highly customizable**](#ui-customization).

To run the example project:

`pod try UITextField-Navigation`

![Screenshot 0](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot0.png?raw=true)
![Screenshot 1](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true)
![Screenshot 2](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot2.gif?raw=true)

## Usage

### Basic

You can set the `nextTextField` property for each `UITextField` either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. The `previousTextField` property will be set on the other `UITextField` automatically for you.

Example:

```swift
import UITextField_Navigation

...
let textField1 = UITextField()
let textField2 = UITextField()
textField1.nextTextField = textField2

assert(textField2 == textField1.nextTextField)
assert(textField1 == textField2.previousTextField)
```

Please note that the `nextTextField` and `previousTextField` properties are not retained.

### Capturing taps

To capture taps on the next, previous and done buttons, assign a `delegate` for your `UITextField` also either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. Then implement the `UITextFieldNavigationDelegate` protocol for the `delegate`.
Please note that you have to explicitly declare that the `delegate` conforms to the protocol to make it work.

<details open>
<summary>Swift:</summary>
```swift
import UIKit
import UITextField_Navigation

...
extension ViewController: UITextFieldNavigationDelegate { // explicitly protocol conforming declaration

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapPreviousButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.previousTextField?.becomeFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapNextButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.nextTextField?.becomeFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapDoneButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.resignFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Objective-C:</summary>
```objective-c
@import UITextField_Navigation;
#import "ViewController.h"

@interface ViewController () <UITextFieldNavigationDelegate> // explicitly protocol conforming declaration

...
#pragma mark - UITextFieldNavigationDelegate

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapPreviousButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField.previousTextField becomeFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapNextButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField.nextTextField becomeFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapDoneButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField resignFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}
```
</details>

### UI Customization

#### Using UIAppearance

Modify the appearance proxy of the `UITextFieldNavigationToolbar` and `UITextFieldNavigationToolbarButtonItem` classes to customize the navigation view's UI for all text fields.

```swift
UITextFieldNavigationToolbar.appearance().barStyle = .Black
UITextFieldNavigationToolbar.appearance().backgroundColor = UIColor.purpleColor()
UITextFieldNavigationToolbarButtonItem.appearance().tintColor = UIColor.whiteColor()
```

![Screenshot 3](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true)

#### Directly and adding more buttons

Alternatively, you can modify the UI directly on each navigation view by accessing the `textFieldNavigationToolbar` property of a text field.

```swift
...
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.barStyle = .Default
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.backgroundColor = UIColor.redColor()
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.previousButton.title = "Previous"
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.nextButton.title = "Next"
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.doneButton.title = "Dismiss"

// Add a custom button
let customButton = UIBarButtonItem(title: "Custom", style: .Plain, target: nil, action: nil)
let flexibleSpace = UIBarButtonItem(barButtonSystemItem: .FlexibleSpace, target: nil, action: nil)
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.items = [textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.previousButton, textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.nextButton, customButton, flexibleSpace, textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.doneButton]
```

![Screenshot 4](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot4.png?raw=true)

## Installation

### [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

Add the line below to your Cartfile:

```ruby
github "T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation"
```

### [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)

Add the line below to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'UITextField-Navigation'
```

### Manually

1. Download and drop [`/UITextField-Navigation/Classes`](/UITextField-Navigation/Classes) folder in your project.
2. Congratulations!

## License

UITextField-Navigation is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

Update README - add "apps that use the library" section

README.md, after:

```
'           __________________ _______          _________ _______ _________ _______  _        ______  
'  |\     /|\__   __/\__   __/(  ____ \|\     /|\__   __/(  ____ \\__   __/(  ____ \( \      (  __  \ 
'  | )   ( |   ) (      ) (   | (    \/( \   / )   ) (   | (    \/   ) (   | (    \/| (      | (  \  )
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   | (__     \ (_) /    | |   | (__       | |   | (__    | |      | |   ) |
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   |  __)     ) _ (     | |   |  __)      | |   |  __)   | |      | |   | |
'  | |   | |   | |      | |   | (       / ( ) \    | |   | (         | |   | (      | |      | |   ) |
'  | (___) |___) (___   | |   | (____/\( /   \ )   | |   | )      ___) (___| (____/\| (____/\| (__/  )
'  (_______)\_______/   )_(   (_______/|/     \|   )_(   |/       \_______/(_______/(_______/(______/ 
'                                                                                                     
'   _        _______          _________ _______  _______ __________________ _______  _                
'  ( (    /|(  ___  )|\     /|\__   __/(  ____ \(  ___  )\__   __/\__   __/(  ___  )( (    /|         
'  |  \  ( || (   ) || )   ( |   ) (   | (    \/| (   ) |   ) (      ) (   | (   ) ||  \  ( |         
'  |   \ | || (___) || |   | |   | |   | |      | (___) |   | |      | |   | |   | ||   \ | |         
'  | (\ \) ||  ___  |( (   ) )   | |   | | ____ |  ___  |   | |      | |   | |   | || (\ \) |         
'  | | \   || (   ) | \ \_/ /    | |   | | \_  )| (   ) |   | |      | |   | |   | || | \   |         
'  | )  \  || )   ( |  \   /  ___) (___| (___) || )   ( |   | |   ___) (___| (___) || )  \  |         
'  |/    )_)|/     \|   \_/   \_______/(_______)|/     \|   )_(   \_______/(_______)|/    )_)         
'                                                                                                     
```

# UITextField-Navigation

[![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/issues)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/metrics/doc-percent/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/UITextField-Navigation)

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square&label=release)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/releases)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

[![Carthage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat-square)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)
[![CocoaPods downloads](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/dt/UITextField-Navigation.svg?style=flat-square)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)

## Description

UITextField-Navigation adds next, previous and done buttons to the keyboard for your `UITextField`s. It allows you to specify a next text field either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. Then, you can access next and previous text fields of each `UITextField` easily.

The UI is [**highly customizable**](#ui-customization).

To run the example project:

`pod try UITextField-Navigation`

![Screenshot 0](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot0.png?raw=true)
![Screenshot 1](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true)
![Screenshot 2](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot2.gif?raw=true)

## Usage

### Basic

You can set the `nextTextField` property for each `UITextField` either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. The `previousTextField` property will be set on the other `UITextField` automatically for you.

Example:

```swift
import UITextField_Navigation

...
let textField1 = UITextField()
let textField2 = UITextField()
textField1.nextTextField = textField2

assert(textField2 == textField1.nextTextField)
assert(textField1 == textField2.previousTextField)
```

Please note that the `nextTextField` and `previousTextField` properties are not retained.

### Capturing taps

To capture taps on the next, previous and done buttons, assign a `delegate` for your `UITextField` also either on the Interface Builder or programmatically. Then implement the `UITextFieldNavigationDelegate` protocol for the `delegate`.
Please note that you have to explicitly declare that the `delegate` conforms to the protocol to make it work.

<details open>
<summary>Swift:</summary>
```swift
import UIKit
import UITextField_Navigation

...
extension ViewController: UITextFieldNavigationDelegate { // explicitly protocol conforming declaration

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapPreviousButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.previousTextField?.becomeFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapNextButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.nextTextField?.becomeFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }

    func textFieldNavigationDidTapDoneButton(textField: UITextField) {
        textField.resignFirstResponder()
        // your custom work
    }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Objective-C:</summary>
```objective-c
@import UITextField_Navigation;
#import "ViewController.h"

@interface ViewController () <UITextFieldNavigationDelegate> // explicitly protocol conforming declaration

...
#pragma mark - UITextFieldNavigationDelegate

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapPreviousButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField.previousTextField becomeFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapNextButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField.nextTextField becomeFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}

- (void)textFieldNavigationDidTapDoneButton:(UITextField *)textField {
    [textField resignFirstResponder];
    // your custom work
}
```
</details>

### UI Customization

#### Using UIAppearance

Modify the appearance proxy of the `UITextFieldNavigationToolbar` and `UITextFieldNavigationToolbarButtonItem` classes to customize the navigation view's UI for all text fields.

```swift
UITextFieldNavigationToolbar.appearance().barStyle = .Black
UITextFieldNavigationToolbar.appearance().backgroundColor = UIColor.purpleColor()
UITextFieldNavigationToolbarButtonItem.appearance().tintColor = UIColor.whiteColor()
```

![Screenshot 3](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true)

#### Directly and adding more buttons

Alternatively, you can modify the UI directly on each navigation view by accessing the `textFieldNavigationToolbar` property of a text field.

```swift
...
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.barStyle = .Default
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.backgroundColor = UIColor.redColor()
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.previousButton.title = "Previous"
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.nextButton.title = "Next"
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.doneButton.title = "Dismiss"

// Add a custom button
let customButton = UIBarButtonItem(title: "Custom", style: .Plain, target: nil, action: nil)
let flexibleSpace = UIBarButtonItem(barButtonSystemItem: .FlexibleSpace, target: nil, action: nil)
textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar?.items = [textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.previousButton, textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.nextButton, customButton, flexibleSpace, textField.textFieldNavigationToolbar!.doneButton]
```

![Screenshot 4](https://github.com/T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation/blob/master/Screenshots/screenshot4.png?raw=true)

## Installation

### [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

Add the line below to your Cartfile:

```ruby
github "T-Pham/UITextField-Navigation"
```

### [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/pods/UITextField-Navigation)

Add the line below to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'UITextField-Navigation'
```

### Manually

1. Download and drop [`/UITextField-Navigation/Classes`](/UITextField-Navigation/Classes) folder in your project.
2. Congratulations!

## Apps that use UITextField-Navigation

Hello fellow developers. I can see that the library has been adopted in some apps. If your app also uses the library, it would be great if you can share it here. Please add it to the list below. Thanks!

1. [Catder - Random animated cat photos](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/catder-random-animated-cat/id1123343798?ls=1&mt=8)

## License

UITextField-Navigation is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more info.
